Good afternoon Mr Williams, please come in and take a seat. I'm Dr Chen. How have you been getting on since your last hospital admission?

Not too bad doctor, but I've been a bit more breathless than usual, especially when I climb the stairs. And my ankles have been swelling up again in the evenings.

I see. When did the ankle swelling start coming back?

About two weeks ago. It goes down overnight but comes back by the afternoon.

And the breathlessness, is that just on exertion or do you get it at rest as well?

Mainly on exertion. Walking up hills or stairs. I can manage on the flat. I don't get breathless lying down and I haven't needed extra pillows at night.

That's helpful to know. Are you taking all your medications as prescribed? You should be on bisoprolol five milligrams once daily, ramipril five milligrams once daily, and furosemide forty milligrams once daily.

Yes I take them all every morning. I haven't missed any doses.

Good. I should mention that your notes show an allergy to ACE inhibitors. We need to keep that in mind. Now let me have a look at your recent results. Your echocardiogram from the fifth of January showed an ejection fraction of thirty five percent, which is reduced. Your BNP was four hundred and fifty picograms per millilitre on the tenth of January, which is elevated. Creatinine was one hundred and one micromoles per litre, which is acceptable.

Is the heart getting worse doctor?

The ejection fraction is reduced but it has been stable compared to previous measurements. The elevated BNP tells us your heart is under some strain, which fits with the symptoms you're describing. I think we should optimise your medications. We could consider increasing the furosemide to help with the fluid retention, and I want to monitor your weight daily. If you gain more than two kilograms in two days, contact the surgery straight away. We will arrange a follow up in four weeks to reassess your symptoms and repeat the bloods. If the breathlessness gets worse or you develop chest pain or you can't lie flat at night, please come in urgently or call one one one.
